we're going to be looking now at the
life cycle of the first seed vascular
plants that we're going to look at which
are the gymnosperms and the example
we'll be looking at will be the pines so
your gymnosperms are typically just best
represented as conifers cone-bearing
plants and they are non flowering so
they have no flowers but they are
vascular and they do not reproduce with
spores like the other plants we've
looked at the fern and the moss man they
are going to reproduce with seeds so if
we're going to look at the an overview
of the lifecycle the reproductive cycle
of these guys one thing that we need to
look at first though is the difference
in their actual cones so here is
actually a photograph of a real pine
tree and what we need to notice is that
they have two different reproductive
structures here the cone that you're
probably most familiar with is the
actual female cone the ovulate cone
which is going to produce the eggs and
then we have the male cones which are
going to give rise to pollen which will
eventually give rise to sperm now we can
go back to the actual life cycle here it
is and as usual we want to start with
fertilization just down here at the
bottom and that's where the sperm and
egg are going to come together and make
the embryo so let's zoom in on this a
little bit and here is our embryo which
is going to be the new sporophyte which
of course is diploid so fertilization is
always going to be taken
haploids and making a diploid and the
embryo together with the seed coat are
going to develop into the seed and then
the seed a lot of times seeds will have
little wing like structures which are
going to help them blow in the wind and
become dispersed which will help them to
get to a suitable environment to be able
to germinate and grow so once the seed
falls to the ground and begins to
germinate it begins to grow it is going
to produce a seedling as we see right
here and that is going to grow into the
mature sporophyte which is going to be
the the actual pine tree they're used to
see and then that pine tree is as it
gets larger and reaches a an age and a
size where it can reproduce sexually it
will produce an ovulate cone of mini
ovulate cones and and many pollen cones
and ovulate cones or we can think of as
the female part of the tree and the
pollen cones we can think of as the male
part of the tree and they are going to
obviously the other that's eventually
going to give rise to eggs and the
pollen cone is eventually going to give
rise to sperm now let's start by
focusing on the ovulate cone inside the
cone if you could actually cut through
this cone in a cross-section you will
see that it has lots of ovules those
scales that you typically see on the
pinecone each one of those as a novel in
it and anytime you see of you need to be
thinking of eggs for example in mammals
we talked about ovulation which is
actually when an egg goes from the ovary
is released from there and getting ready
to be fertilized so obvious and the
female reproductive structures so if we
kind of zoom in on the ovulate cone or
excuse me on the ovule of the ovulate
cone
we will see that it has what's called a
megasporangium
which is kind of this whole structure
right here and inside of that is going
to be a mega spore aside which is
diploid and it's like a obviously site
the suffix side means cell so and then
whenever you see mega you need to be
thinking about eggs we're going to talk
about sperm in a minute and that will be
micro but eggs are always much larger
than sperm so the megaspore site is kind
of this original cell that's going to
eventually give rise to eggs you also
this ovule has an intimate kind of a
skin around it that protects it and it
has a micro pile which is a hole where
the pollen will actually attach so that
fertilization can occur
now the megaspore site is going to by
meiosis remember meiosis always takes us
from diploid two haploid by meiosis is
going to produce megaspores and one of
those megaspores
is going to become an egg eventually
eventually give rise to the egg now if
we want to back up a little bit and we
want to look at the male cone the pollen
cone a similar thing is going to happen
in the female structure we had
megasporangium which gave rise to
megaspore sites and those megaspore
sites eventually gave rise to mega
spores which are haploid we have a
similar thing going on here in the
pollen cone we are going to have
megasporangium which excuse me micro
sporangia which are a lot like the
megasporangium of the female part of the
cone and they are going to give rise to
diploid microspore sites and again
that's going to be by mitosis
remember mitosis is always going to go
from well not always but usually it
always do something identical so if we
start with something diploid we're going
to end with something diploid sometimes
as we'll find out in a minute
we will start with something haploid but
we will end with something haploid so
mitosis is always going to produce
something like itself so these micro
sporangia mitosis are going to produce
microspore o sites and then those micro
spore Oh sites are going to be tiny
cells inside the microsporangia they are
going to by meiosis produce pollen
grains so meiosis is going to be it's
going to go from diploid - haploid and
we're going to have each of these pollen
grains is going to be differentiated
from the other because of the
recombination of DNA that happens in
meiosis eventually one of these pollen
grains is going to find its way to the
micropyle of the ovule to begin
fertilization and now one thing we have
to remember is gymnosperms have no
flowers so what that means is that they
are going to reproduce by wind um
flowering plants will attract
pollinators to carry pollen from one
place to the other
but gymnosperms don't have flowers they
are going to just rely on windblown
pollen and eventually some of that
pollen is going to make its way to a
micropile Manavi owl and begin the
process of fertilization
now the megasporangium gave rise to the
megaspore aside and that by meiosis gave
rise to megaspores and so these mega
spores are what are actually going to
eventually give rise to the female part
of the plant the archegonium the archa
Ghonim is going to be greatly reduced in
gymnosperms and so the megaspore by
mitosis now the megaspore is haploid but
remember
by mitosis it's going to produce another
haploid structure the archegonium and
the archegonium is going to again by
mitosis it's going to produce the eggs
so recap that the megaspore is going to
produce the archegonium which is going
to produce the egg inside the ovule now
all of this time the pollen is what we
call it's germinating in other words it
is going through it has cells inside of
it that are going through mitosis the
the pollen we could think of it the
pollen as being the male gametophyte and
we could think of the archegonium here
which came from the megaspore as being
the female gametophyte and the pollen is
going to produce sperm and those sperm
are actually going to make their way
toward the egg so there's actually in in
this particular life cycle here there's
there's two eggs that get produced by
this arch ago neom so here's why well
let's see let's assume in a little bit
get all fuzzy
so the archegonium is given rise to two
eggs and the pollen is actually going to
produce sperm that will fertilize those
eggs now a pollen tube is going to form
and basically from the micropyle which
again is the opening here where the
pollen landed in the first place it's
kind of pollen tube is going to form
various enzymes and things are going to
help that to occur and the sperm is
going to go in and fertilize the eggs
and so at that point we'll be back here
at fertilization that will produce an
embryo which will develop the embryo
with the the collective structures here
will develop into the seed and
eventually into the seedling and into
the entire tree so just to do a very
quick recap of the gymnosperm
life cycle fertilization is going to
occur and that's going to produce seeds
and the seeds are going to produce the
dominant sporophyte which is the actual
tree the tree will have an ovule a cone
which is the female part it will have a
pollen cone which is the which is the
male part of the tree
the ovulate cone will have ovules in it
and those ovules will have a
megasporangium which by mitosis will
produce megaspore sites and in the
megaspores sites let's see that happens
by mitosis the megaspore asides then by
meiosis will produce mega spores and the
megaspores will give rise to the
archegonium which will give rise to the
eggs and those of course all that
happens by mitosis so up here where our
mitosis goes from diploid two diploid
down here it goes from haploid two
haploid mitosis is always like producing
light in the pollen cone which is the
male part of the tree similar things
happen you have micro sporangium which
are similar to the megasporangium of the
female part and the micros perineum by
mitosis give rise to the microspore
sites and those by meiosis give rise to
pollen grains the pollen grains are
going to land in the micropyle which is
the opening in the ovule
so that fertilization can eventually
occur the egg the eggs that were
produced by the archegonium are
eventually going to be fertilized by
sperm produced by the pollen so once the
pollen remember the pollen is haploid
because it was produced by meiosis
so it's haploid it was produced by
meiosis and
it is then going to by mitosis produce
sperm which will be haploid and those
haploid sperm will fertilize the eggs
and then the eggs that the zygote will
form and that will eventually go into an
embryo which will give rise to the tree
and it all starts over again